# Datadog Event Resource

Fetch or emit events to Datadog.


## Source Configuration

* `application_key`: *Required.* The application key to use when accessing Datadog.

* `api_key`: *Required.* The api key to use when accessing Datadog.

* `filter`: *Optional.* Regexp to filter events by title when checking.

* `datadog_host`: *Optional.* Datadog host url to switch from US to Europe datacenter, default to US.


## Behavior

### `check`: Listen for events in the event stream from the last 32 days.

Detects new events that have been published to the Datadog event stream within the last 32 days.


### `in`: Fetch an event

Places the following files in the destination:

* `event.json`: The event fetched, as JSON. Example:

    ```json
    {
        "date_happened": 1346449298,
        "id": 1378859526682864843,
        "priority": "normal",
        "tags": [
            "environment:test"
        ],
        "text": "Oh boy!",
        "title": "Did you hear the news today?",
        "url": "https://app.datadoghq.com/event/jump_to?event_id=1378859526682864843"
    }
    ```

* `version`: The ID of the event fetched.

#### Parameters

*None.*


### `out`: Emit an event to Datadog

Emits an event based on the static configuration defined in your parameters. Based on the [Datadog API](http://docs.datadoghq.com/api/?lang=console#events-post)

#### Parameters

**Required**

* `title`: The event title. Limited to 100 characters.

One of the following:

* `text`: Static text for the body of the event.

* `text_file` Path to a file containing text for the body of the event. This allows the message to be generated by a previous task step in the Concourse job.

Limited to 4000 characters. The text supports markdown.

**Optional**

* `priority`: The priority of the event ('normal' or 'low').

* `host`: Host name to associate with the event.

* `tags`: A list of tags to apply to the event.

* `alert_type`: "error", "warning", "info" or "success".

* `aggregation_key`: An arbitrary string to use for aggregation, max length of 100 characters. If you specify a key, all events using that key will be grouped together in the Event Stream.

* `source_type_name`: The type of event being posted. Options: nagios, hudson, jenkins, user, my apps, feed, chef, puppet, git, bitbucket, fabric, capistrano


## Example Configuration

### Resource

```yaml
resource_types:
- name: datadog-event
  type: docker-image
  source:
    repository: concourse/datadog-event-resource

resources:
- name: datadog-event
  type: datadog-event
  source:
    api_key: API-KEY
    application_key: APPLICATION-KEY
    filter: "event-.*-regexp"
```

### Plan

```yaml
- get: datadog-event
```

```yaml
- put: datadog-event
  params:
    title: Did you hear the news today?
    text: Oh boy!
    priority: normal
    tags:
    - environment:test
    alert_type: info
```

## Development

### Prerequisites

* golang is *required* - version 1.12.x is tested; earlier versions may also
  work.
* docker is *required* - version 18.09.x is tested; earlier versions may also
  work.

### Running the tests

The tests have been embedded with the `Dockerfile`; ensuring that the testing
environment is consistent across any `docker` enabled platform. When the docker
image builds, the test are run inside the docker container, on failure they
will stop the build.

Run the tests with the following commands for both `alpine` and `ubuntu` images:

```sh
docker build -t datadog-event-resource -f dockerfiles/alpine/Dockerfile .
docker build -t datadog-event-resource -f dockerfiles/ubuntu/Dockerfile .
```

### Contributing

Please make all pull requests to the `master` branch and ensure tests pass
locally.
